Expand Certificate Expiry docs with sensor details and template example (#44718)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/cert_expiry.markdown

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

{% configuration_basic %}
Host:
  description: "The hostname to check the certificate for, for example, `home-assistant.io`. Do not include `https://` or a path to a file on your computer."
Port:
  description: "The port to connect to. The default is `443`."
{% endconfiguration_basic %}

## Supported functionality

### Sensors

The integration creates a single sensor for each configured host.

- **Certificate expiry**
  - **Description**: The expiration date and time of the host's SSL/TLS certificate.
  - **Device class**: Timestamp. The state is a UTC datetime, not a number of days. The Home Assistant UI might display it as "in X days," but this is only a display format.

The sensor also provides the following attributes:

- **`is_valid`**: Whether the certificate has been validated (`true` or `false`).
- **`error`**: A human-readable error description if the certificate is considered invalid, or `None` when the certificate is valid.

{% tip %}
To calculate the number of days until the certificate expires in a template or automation, use `as_datetime()` to convert the state and subtract `now()`. For example:

> 

Reviewer: Delete extra blank line

```suggestion
```

ha_integration_type: service
---

The **Certificate Expiry** {% term integration %} monitors the expiration date of an SSL/TLS certificate for a configured host. This is useful for keeping track of when certificates need to be renewed, for example, for your own website or Home Assistant's remote access certificate.

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

{% configuration_basic %}
Host:

>   description: "The hostname to check the certificate for, for example, `home-assistant.io`. Do not include `https://` or a path."

Reviewer: It's a little unclear what path we don't want here. Is this correct?

```suggestion
  description: "The hostname to check the certificate for, for example, `home-assistant.io`. Do not include `https://` or a path to a file on your computer."
```

Port:
  description: "The port to connect to. The default is `443`."
{% endconfiguration_basic %}

## Supported functionality

### Sensors

The integration creates a single sensor for each configured host.

- **Certificate expiry**
  - **Description**: The expiration date and time of the host's SSL/TLS certificate.

>   - **Device class**: Timestamp. The state is a UTC datetime, not a number of days. The Home Assistant UI may display it as "in X days," but this is only a display format.

Reviewer: nitpick: prefer "might" for possibility. "May" can be confused with giving permission:

```suggestion
  - **Device class**: Timestamp. The state is a UTC datetime, not a number of days. The Home Assistant UI might display it as "in X days," but this is only a display format.
```

The sensor also provides the following attributes:

> - **`is_valid`**: Whether the certificate could be validated (`true` or `false`).

Reviewer: Let's be clearer so it doesn't look like "could" means a supposition in the future:

```suggestion
- **`is_valid`**: Whether the certificate has been validated (`true` or `false`).
```

- **`error`**: A human-readable error description if the certificate is considered invalid, or `None` when the certificate is valid.

{% note %}
To calculate the number of days until the certificate expires in a template or automation, use `as_datetime()` to convert the state and subtract `now()`. For example:

```yaml
value_template: >
  {{
    (as_datetime(states('sensor.cert_expiry_timestamp_example_com'))
    - now()).days
  }}
```

> {% endnote %}

Reviewer: This looks like a good example for a tip:

```suggestion
{% tip %}
To calculate the number of days until the certificate expires in a template or automation, use `as_datetime()` to convert the state and subtract `now()`. For example:

```yaml
value_template: >
  {{
    (as_datetime(states('sensor.cert_expiry_timestamp_example_com'))
    - now()).days
  }}
```

{% endtip %}
```
